Hello Everyone. I am Anupam Banerjee, a Master of Data Science Student at Deakin University. Welcome 
to my research presentation on the Topic - Benefits of Chatbot based AI solutions for Businesses: 
ROI on Chatbots using Monte Carlo simulations. 

I was interested in knowing how much profit does a chatbot project make in its life cycle
which is complex question and most research on estimation of the return on investment is 
calculated using static formula based approaches equating components like efforts, duration, benefits, 
costs etc. The problem with these approaches is that software development life cycle is full of 
uncertainities. Therefore, through my Research I am proposing a noval way of including uncertainities
in calculation and estimation of Return on Investment on Chatbot Applications. 

In absence of any relevant dataset available in public domain, I have created a dummy dataset using
python that is loosely based on the SEERA dataset for software cost estimation. Our dummy dataset 
extensively records 48 different features related to life cycle of a chatbot application. These 
features can be easily gathered from managers using the methods of online surveys and interviews.

Here is a screenshot of the first 5 rows of the dataset out of 1000 simulated rows.

Some of the most important features for estimating the are given: 

In order to generate simulated data related to software life cycle and incorporating the 
uncertainity I have used Monte Carlo Simulation which provide a range of outcomes and their 
associated probabilities hence providing more accurate results. This technique is widely used 
simulating uncertainity for quantitative analysis.

Monte carlo simulation is based on the following theoram which suggest the commulitive distribution
function of random variable X has the same distribution as F-1 U where U is a uniform random variable
between 0 and 1. 

For simplicity I have used beta and normal distribution for simulating various numerical features 
and weighted random choices categorical data. 

The visualization here shows the generated features using this technique. 

I have also introduced correlations between related features for more realistic results like projects
duration and project cost as they are not independant of each other. 

This slide shows the visualization of correlation amoung features.

Once the Dataset is generated and qualitative and quantitative features are calculated, I have converted 
categorical data using one hot encoding. After that the Dataset is ready to be fed into a supervised
machine Learning Algorithm for estimation of ROI and classification of projects into profitable or
non profitable. 

I have used decision tree, random forest and Support vector Machine for supervised learning. The best 
results are shown by decision tree and Random forest. 

I have evaluated the results using evaluation matrix like confusion matrix, accuracy, presion and 
recall that essentially compares the True and False positive to the total outcomes to indicate 
effectiveness of the algorithm. 

The framework proposed provide and extensive way of evaluating Return on Investment for chatbot 
projects and can be customized for other AI application life cycle. The data collection using the 
above schema of features is an iterative process and will involve adding more features and discarding
others. 

Thats all from my side. Hope you like this presentation. Thankyou




 

